# Core concepts and Principles

You are a low code professional, what does this mean? it means that you are use R Studio for your workflows, ocassionally excel and other microsoft products. You've been learning tidyverse and sprinkling in some key base R functions. Concepts such as evaluation order, environments and xxx are foreign to you. 

You may using R for business reports, analysis, or research. 

This book isn't giong to teach you how to code, it won't teach you stats it 
won't teach you what the difference between object orient programming and 
functional programming. I don't care if R starts at 1 and pythong starts 0.
I don't care if one language starts indexing at 0 and another starts at 1. 
I'm here to improve your productivity. 
I'm here to teach you patterns. I will try to teach the underlying concepts 
of why this happens. 

You try to code every day but you often don't have time.
I want to pass on what was most effective for me and how I improved my 
productivity.

You are constrained by your work environment in what you can install and do
You are constrained by your work team, their skill sets, work flow and deliverables
You are constrained by managers, their understanding and fluency of the data
You are contained by your systems, data engineering, and information flows

In short this has two frameworks 

-   tidyverse related productivity

        -       import data, data columns and names
            -       column types
            -       column selection
            -       column names
            -       read multiple files (repeating action)
            -       big data
            -       csv vs. excel vs. database
            -       Querying best practices
                    -       naming convention
                    -       setting / navigating working directories
                    -       accessing data via github
                    -       writing data
            -       how to create metadata
            -       how to reference data vs. metadata 
                    -       column values
                    -       column names
                    -       object type
            -       How to rename columns (rename_with)
            -       
        -       group_by() and summarize()
            -       simple
            -       across()
            -       conditional subset
            -       
        -       pivot_longer() and pivot_wider()
        -       functional programming
        -       group_by(), nest() and functions()
                -       how to nest a dataframe
                -       how to reference columns in that dataframe in a formula
                        - NSE vs. non NSE
                -       how to reference columns in the list vs. columns in the dataframe
                        -       regular ( a number in a column) 
                        -       the name of a column to select in list vs. in the nested dataframe
                        -       a list of arguments
                        -       a list of column arguments
                -       how to create objects (ggplots vs. nested vs. results)
                -       how to unnested objects for refernce later one

        -       ggplot, colors and formatting
        -       Quarto related

-   vim related

        -       Rstudio vim bindings
            -       Motions
            -       Action
            -       Search and Replace

        -       VS Studio
            -       plugs
            -       Additional Motions

-   github related
        -       Neovim config files
        -       list of R libraries that I need

-   Packages that I want to create
        -       count plus
        -       abc distribution
        -       surivive analysis
        -       periodic variance analysis
        -       
